# Queue arguments

Queues have properties that defines they behavior.

## Mandatory arguments
* Name
* Durable (the queue will survive a broker restart)
* Exclusive (used by only one connection and the queue will be deleted when that connection closes)
* Auto-delete (queue will be deleted when all consumers disconnect)
* Arguments (optional; used by plugins and broker-specific such as message TTL, queue length limit, etc)

## Optional arguments
Are also known as "x-arguments" because of their field name  in AMQP 0-9-1 protocol

* Queue type (e.g. quorum or classic)
* Message and queue TTL
* Queue length limit
* Legacy classic mirroring settings
* Max number of priorities
* Consumer priorities
and so on.

TTL: Time to Live and Expiration:
allows you to set TTL (time to live) for both messages and queues.
Can be applied to a single queue, a group of queues or applied on the message.
A message that has been in the queue for longer than the configured TTL is said to be dead.
The deadth of a message in one queue has no impact on the life of the same message in other queues.
The value of the TTL must be a non-negative integer period in milliseconds. e.g. A value of 1000 means that a message added to the queue will live in the queue for 1 second or until it is delivered to a consumer.

## Defining a Message TTL for queues using a Policy
Add the key "message-ttl" to a policy definition
rabbitmqctl: rabbitmqctl set_policy TTL ".*"'{message-ttl:0000}' --apply-to queues

This will apply a TTL of 60 seconds to all queues.

## Definig a Message TTL for queues using xarguments during the declaration

Some optional arguments can be dinamically changed after queue declaration.
The Java example below creates a queue in which mesages may reside for at most 60 seconds:
```
Map<String, Object> args = new HashMap<>();
args.put("x-message-ttl", 60000);
channel.queueDeclare("myqueue",false,false,false, args);
```

### References
- [RabbitMQ](https://www.rabbitmq.com/ttl.html)
