# Java EE vs Java SE

## Java SE
Provides the core functiionallity of the Java programming language.

## Java EE
Is build in top of the Java SE and providas an API and runtime environtment for developing network applications.

## Overview Java Enterprise Applications (EE)
The Java EE platform help developers create large-scale, multi-tiered, scalable, reliable and secure network applications. A shorthand name for such applications is "enterprise applications", so called because these applications are designed to solve the problems encountered by large enterprises, but that not means that it works only for large corporations.

### Tiered Applications
The functionalities of the applications are separated into isolated areas, called tiers. 
Multi-tiered structure:
Tipically, multi-tiered applications have a client tier, middle tier and a data tier(often called the enterprise information systems tier).
* Client tier: client program that makes requests to the middle tier
* Middle tier: handle client requests and process application data, storing it in a datastore on the data tier.

Java EE application development cnocentrates on the middle tier to make enterprise application management easier, more robust, and more secure.

* The Client Tier consists of application clients that access a Java EE server and that are usually located on a different machine from the server. The clients make requests to the server. The server processes the requests and returns a response back to the client. Many different types of applications can be Java EE clients, and they are not always, or even often Java applications. Clients can be a web browser, a standalone application, or other servers, and they run on a different machine from the Java EE server.

* The Web Tier consists of components that handle the interaction between clients and the business tier. its primary tasks are the following:
	* Dinamically generate content in various formats for the client
	* Collect input from users of the client interface and return appropriate results from the components in the business tier
	* Control the flow of screens or pages on the client
	* Maintain the state of data for a users session
	* Perform some basic logic and hold some data temporarily in JavaBeans components

Java EE technologies used in Web tier:

| Technology | Purpose
| :---:   | :-: |
|Servlets|Java classes that dynamically process requests and construct responses usually for HTML pages|
|||
|||
|||
|||
|||
|||
### References
- [Java Official Tutorial: Differences between Java EE and Java SE](https://docs.oracle.com/javaee/6/firstcup/doc/gkhoy.html)
