# Redshift
Is a data warehousing solution that can handle huge volumes of data, capable of processing structured or unstructured data in the range of exabytes (10^18 bytes). 

Redshift is OLAP-style (Online Analytical Processing) column-oriented database. It is based on PostgreSQL 8.0.1, so regular SQL queries can be used with Redshift, but what differs from other services is the fast delivery to queries made on a large database with exabytes of data.

## Benefits
One of the main benefits of using Redshift is the cost. It costs only a fraction of the cost of other competitors, like: Teradata or Oracle.

* Speed: MPP technology allows parallel delivering ouput of large data sets
* Data Encryption: You can decide which operations need encryption and those that do not need encryption.
* Use familiar tools: All the SQL queries work with it. You can cheese any SQL, ETL (Extract, transform, load) and Business Intelligence (BI) tools you are familiar with. 

* Automate repetitive tasks: Tasks like generating daily, weekly or monthly reports can be automated. It can also be regular maitenance tasks, to clean up data.

### Concurrent Scaling

* Query Volume: You can send thousand of queries to the dataset at any given time and Redshift will not slow down, because it will dinamically allocate processing and memory resources o hangle higher demand.
* AWS Integration: The integration between the rest of the AWS tools works great
* Redshift API: Redshift has a robust API as well as your documentation. It can be used to send queries for example within a Python program.
* Machine Learning: Redshift usees machine learning to predict and help to analyze quieries, incresing the performance.
* Easy deployment: An Redshift cluster can be deployed in minutes.
* Consistent backup: Amazon automatically back ups data regularly through different locations.

## Limitations

* Parallel Uploads: Redshift does not support all databases for parallel upload.
* Uniqueness: Redsfhit does not provide any tool or means to ensure the uniqueness of data.
* Olap Limitations: OLAP databases are optimized for analytical queries on a large volume of data. OLAP lacks in performing basic database tasks. Insert/update/delete  operations have performance limitations in OLAP databases.

## AWS Redshift Pricing Model
The price starts at $0.25 per hour for a terabyte of data. It offers three types of nodes:
* RA3 nodes with managed storage: Where you pick the level of performance you require.
* DC2 Nodes: Should be chosen when you need high performance.SSD are included with the nodes. You will need to add more nodes when the size of the data grows.
* DS2 nodes: Should be chosen when there is a large data set that needs to be stored. Provides only HDD and has a slower performawnce compared to other nodes.
* Redshift spectrum pricing: When you need to run SQL queries on a large dataset in an S3 data lake, you will pay according to the usage. If the data in S3 is of exabyte range, you will only need to pay according to the amount of data scanned.
* Concurrency scaling pricing: You only need to pay according to the usage. In addition, each cluster has one scaling credit every day. This will be sufficient for 97% of the customers according to past AWS data.

### References

- [AWS Redshift](https://www.cloudzero.com/blog/aws-redshift)
