# IAM: Identity and Access Management

IAM enables you to securely control access to AWS services and resources for your users. It allows you to create and manage AWS users, groups and their permissions to access AWS resources.
There are many types of security available, like:
* IAM
* Key Management System (KMS)
* Cognito
* Web Access Firewall (WAF)

You can create an IAM user when there is a new employee to your corporate
IAM components:
- User;
- Group: many users together form a group.
- Policies: The engines that allow or deny a connection based on policy. By default, all requests (create, edit, or delete a resource) are denied and the request is authorized only if the request matches all policy rules.
- Roles: are temporary credentials that can be assumed to an instance as needed.


* Users
IAM User is an identity with credentials and permissions attached to it. A IAM User can be a person who is a user or, it could be an application that is a user. You can securely manage access to your AWS services by creating an IAM user for each employee in your organization. Every IAM user iss associated with only one AWS account. By default, a newly created user is not authorized to perfoem any action in AWS.

* Groups
A group is a collection of IAM users in an IAM group. IAM groups allow you to specify permissions for multiple users at once. So that any permissions applied to the group, are applied to the individual users in that group as well. To manage groups, you set the permissions for the group, and those permissions are automatically applied to all the users in the gorup. If you add another user to the group, it will inherit all the policies and permissions already assigned to that group.

* Policies
IAM policy sets permission and controls access to AWS resources. Policies are stored in AWS as JSON documents. The Permissions specify the actions and resources that a user can access. For example, a policy could allow an IAM user to access one of the buckets in Amazon S3. The policy would contain:
- 1. Who can access it
- 2. What actions that user can take
- 3. Which AWS resources that user can access
- 4. When they can be accessed

The JSON file would look like this:
```
{
	"Version":"2017-10-17",
	"Id":"S3-Account-Permissions",
	"Statement":[{
	"Sid":"AddPublicReadPermissions", //Specify actions(read/write/delete)
	"Effect":"Allow", //Give permissions (allow/deny)
	"Principal":"", // Who can access it
	"Action","s3" //What action can a user take
	"Resource":["arn: AWS:s3:::bucket/*"] // specify the resource
		}]
	
}
```
Are two types of Policies: managed policies and inline policies.

- 1. A managed policy is a default policy that you attach to multiple entities (users, groups and roles).
- 2. Inline policies are policies that you create that are embedded directly into a single entity (user, group or role).

#### Roles
An IAM role is a set o permissions that define what actions are allowed and denied by an entity in the AWS console.Role permissions are temporary credentials.

For example, you can allow a mobile app to use AWS resources, but without save the key, credential or password. You can give access to resources to a user who already has an identity defined outside AWS, such as google or facebook authentication. You can grant temporary access to you account to a third party, such as a consultant or an auditor. They're not permanent users, just users with temporary access to your environment.

#### IAM Features

* Shared access to the AWS account: Allows you to create separate usernames and passwords for individual users or resources and delegate their access.

* Granular permissions: Restrictions can be applied to requests. For example, you can allow the user to download information, but deny the user the ability to update information through the policies.

* Multifactor Authentication (MFA): IAM supports MFA, in which users provide their username, password and a one-time ramdomly generated password from their phone.

* Identity Federation: If the user is aleady authenticated in a Facebook or Google account, IAM can be made to trust that authentication and then allow access based on it.

* Free to use: There is no additional charge for IAM security. That is, add users, groups or policies are totally free.

* PCI DSS Compliance: The Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard is an security standard for organizations that handle branded credit cards.

* Password policy: IAM password policy allows you to reset a password or rotate passwords remotely. Is possible to set rules too, such as how user should pick a password or how many attempts a user may take to provide a password before being denied access.

### References

- [AWS Tutorial AWS IAM](https://www.simplilearn.com/tutorials/aws-tutorial/aws-iam)
