# S3

Cloud storage pricing:
>
1. Pay only for what you use
2. Pay on a monthly basis

### Types of AWS Storage

* S3
* EFS
* EBS
* Glacier
* Storage Gateway
* Snowball
* Snowball Edge
* Snowmobile

### Before AWS S3

S3 came to make managing your data easier and secure, running applications, delivering content to customers, hosting high traffic websites, backing-up emails and files etc.
The issues that AWS S3 solves are:
1. Purhchase hardware and software
2. Requiring a team of expters for maintenance
3. A lack scalability based on your requirements
4. Data security

### What is S3

Amazon S3 (Simple Storage Service) was built for storing any amount of data in objects. This feature is available through a web services interface. While designed for developers for easier web-scale computing, it provides 99.999999999 percent durability and 99.99 percent availability of objects. It can also store computer files up to 5tb in size.

### S3 Benefits

* Durability
* Low cost
* Scalability
* Availability
* Security
* Flexibility
* Simple data transfer

### Aws S3 main components
#### AWS Buckets and Objects

An object it's formed by data, key(assigned name), and metadata. A bucket is used to store objects. When data is added to a bucket, Amazon S3 creates a unique version ID and allocates it to the object.

```
Object: folder/Penguins.jpg // -> Key(name)
Bucket: simplilearn // -> Version ID
Link Address: https://s3.amazonaws.com/simplilearn/folder/Penguins.jpg[
```

### How S3 works?
When a bucket is created, the user needs to specify the region in which the bucket will be deployed. Later, when files are uploaded to the bucket, the user will determine the type of S3 storage class to be used for those specific objects. After this, users can define bucket policy, lifecycle, policies, versioning control, etc.

	

### S3 Storage Classes

Storage classes:

1. Amazon s3 for frequent data access: Suitable for a use case where the latency should below.
2. Amazon s3 Standard for infrequent data access: Applied to long-lived and less frequently accessed data.
3. Amazon Glacier: Can be used when data has to be archived, and high performance it not required. Example: Ex-students old academic records will not needed daily.
4. One Zone-IA Storage Class: When data is frequently accessed and stored in a single region.
5. Amazon S3 Standard Reduced Redundancy storage: When the data is non-critical and reproduced quickly. Example: Books in the library are non-critical data and can be replaced if lost.

### S3 Features

#### Lifecycle management
Amazon S3 applies a set of rules that define the action to a groupo of objects. Is possible to manage and store objects in a easier and cost-effective manner. There are two types of actions:
1. Transition Action: you can choose to move objects to another storage class. So that you can configure s3 to move your data between various storage classes on a defined schedule.
Example: Let's assume you've got some data stored in the s3 standard class. If this data is not used frequently for 30 days, it would be moved to the s3 infrequent access class. And after 60 days, it is moved to Glacier. This allows you to migrate your data to lower-cost storage as it ages automatically.

2. Expiration Actions: When a specified date or time period in the object's lifetime is reached S3 removes all objects within the bucket.

3. Bucket Policy: IAM policy whre you can manage permission to your S3 resources. With bucket policy you can also define security rules that aply to more than one file within a bucket. Example: if you want to restrict the user access to the "simplilearn" bucket, then with the help of JSON script, you can set permissions. As a result, a user would be denied to the bucket.

4. Data protection: S3 provides IT teams with a highly durable, protected and scalable infraestructure designed for object storage. S3 protects your data using:
	* Data encryption
	* Versioning
	* Cross-region replication
	* Transfer acceleration
1. Data encryption: The protection of the data while it's being transmitted. It can be encripted on the client-side (data encryption at rest) and in the server-side (data encryption in motion).
2. Versioning: used to preserve, recorver and restore an early version of every object you store in a bucket. Unintentional erases or overwriting of objects can easily be managed with versionig.
3. Cross-region replication: provides automatic backup of every object uploaded to your buckets (source and destination bucket) in different AWS regions. Versioning needs to be turned on to enable CRR.
4. Transfer acceleration: easy and secure transfers of files over long distances between your client and S3 bucket. it carries data over an optimized network bridge that keeps running between the AWS Edge Location(closes region to your clients) and your amazon S3 bucket.

### References
- [S3 Tutorial](https://www.simplilearn.com/tutorials/aws-tutorial/aws-s3)
